#summary PathZilla is a network building AI
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

PathZilla is a networking AI. The focus of this AI is on high level planning and neat, realistic construction.

To get the best results from PathZilla you are *strongly* advised to activate the advanced setting "Stations" > "Allow drive-through road stops on town owned roads". The AI will still function correctly but will need to perform more demolition in towns and so reduce its local authority rating faster.

The AI has a number of settings which the user should change to their personal 
preference. If desired, the player will find a less challenging opponent if  
setting planning speed to very slow, turning aggression off, and setting 
traffic to low. Regardless of these settings though, the AI will always attempt
to build a complete network and turn a profit.

== Settings ==
  * Planning speed - Governs how much time the AI will wait between actions. If set to 'Fastest', the AI will not wait at all.
  * Compete aggressively - If set off, the AI will consider competitors stations and services when judging how well serviced a town or industry is, and will not attempt to build close to their stations
  * Level of traffic - Governs the fleet size estimates and limits. A higher setting will allow the AI to build more vehicles
  * Route cargo through towns - If set on, the AI will link industries to their nearest towns if applicable, otherwise it will link industries  directly together
  * Build windy lanes - If set on, the AI will makes its roads follow the terrain, giving them a more natural "windy" appearance. This is applied to all roads before 1950, and to roads between small towns without 2x2/3x3 grids before 1990 

== Features ==
Please look [http://code.google.com/p/ottd-noai-pathzilla/wiki/Features here] for a more in depth look at the more notable features.
  * High-level network planning using graph theory
  * Uses two tiers of pathfinding to improve line re-use
  * Aesthetic pathfinding builds tram lines alongside roads and honours town grid layouts where applicable
  * Full support for articulated vehicles and trams, where available
  * Builds "green belt" around towns to improve local authority rating
  * Supports NewGRF vehicles (tested with Zephyris' eGRVTS, George's Long Vehicles v4, and PikkaBird's HOVS)
  * Builds multiple road stations per town and maintains fleet sizes
  * Supports save/load and difficulty settings
  * Supports passengers and mail

== Changelog ==
For a full change log please look [http://code.google.com/p/ottd-noai-pathzilla/wiki/Changelog here].

== To Do ==
  * Expand and upgrade busy stations
  * Upgrade and replace old vehicles

== Wish List ==
  * Rail, aircraft, and ship support
  * On the fly terraforming 
  * Build 2-lane highways (once one-way road support is introduced)
  * Re-model poorly laid out towns

== Known Issues ==
  * Has a tendency to "wipe-out" towns when the game runs multiple instances of PathZilla, if 'aggressive' is set on
  * Does not include airports in competitor check for aggression setting 
  * May handle tourists incorrectly where towns are directly adjacent 

== Downloads ==
Version 5 was released on 24/01/2009 and tested against r15235, you can download it [http://ottd-noai-pathzilla.googlecode.com/files/pathzilla.tar here].

If you have any questions or comments you can find me on tt-forums.net or you
can email me at george.weller@gmail.com